Species trait data
For selected mammal species, abundance was derived from the predicted mean density, and the carrying capacity as the 75th upper percentile from (Santini et al., 2022), where species population densities were modeled as a function of body mass, diet, locomotor habits and environmental conditions. The net reproduction rate, described as the average number of offspring that a female produces during her lifetime, was estimated as the litter size multiplied by the number of successful reproductive years (maximum age minus the reproductive age), both obtained from the Pantheria database (Jones et al., 2009). Dispersal distances were estimated according to the positive allometric relationships from body masses in kilograms, from the Pantheria and Phylacine databases (Faurby et al., 2018), for carnivores and herbivores together with omnivores, according to Sutherland et al 2000. Yearly survival rates were derived from regression models developed for annual adult survival of mammals, by (McCarthy et al., 2008).

For selected bird species, both abundance and carrying capacity were derived from the predicted mean density and the 75th percentile available through (Santini et al., 2023), respectively, where population densities were modeled as a function of trait and environmental predictors in a Bayesian framework accounting for phylogenetic and spatial autocorrelation. The net reproduction rate, similarly to mammal species, was estimated as the clutch size (Jetz et al., 2008), multiplied by the number of successful reproductive years (with maximum age and reproductive age values obtained (Bird et al., 2020). Dispersal distances were estimated according to the positive allometric relationships using body mass values (in kilograms) from the Amniote database (Myhrvold et al., 2015), for carnivores and herbivores together with omnivores (according to Sutherland et al., 2000). Yearly survival rates were derived from regression models developed for annual adult survival of birds (McCarthy et al., 2008).

References
Bird, J. P., Martin, R., Akçakaya, H. R., Gilroy, J., Burfield, I. J., Garnett, S. T., Symes, A., Taylor, J., Şekercioğlu, Ç. H., & Butchart, S. H. M. (2020). Generation lengths of the world’s birds and their implications for extinction risk. Conservation Biology: The Journal of the Society for Conservation Biology, 34(5), 1252–1261. https://doi.org/10.1111/cobi.13486
Faurby, S., Davis, M., Pedersen, R. Ø., Schowanek, S. D., Antonelli, A., & Svenning, J.-C. (2018). PHYLACINE 1.2: The Phylogenetic Atlas of Mammal Macroecology. Ecology, 99(11), 2626. https://doi.org/10.1002/ecy.2443
Jetz, W., Sekercioglu, C. H., & Böhning-Gaese, K. (2008). The worldwide variation in avian clutch size across species and space. PLoS Biology, 6(12), 2650–2657. https://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pbio.0060303
Jones, K. E., Bielby, J., Cardillo, M., Fritz, S. a., O’Dell, J., Orme, C. D. L., Safi, K., Sechrest, W., Boakes, E. H., Carbone, C., Connolly, C., Cutts, M. J., Foster, J. K., Grenyer, R., Habib, M., Plaster, C. a., Price, S. a., Rigby, E. a., Rist, J., … Purvis, A. (2009). PanTHERIA: a species-level database of life history, ecology, and geography of extant and recently extinct mammals. Ecology, 90(9), 2648–2648. https://doi.org/10.1890/08-1494.1
McCarthy, M. A., Citroen, R., & McCall, S. C. (2008). Allometric scaling and Bayesian priors for annual survival of birds and mammals. The American Naturalist, 172(2), 216–222. https://doi.org/10.1086/588074
Myhrvold, N. P., Baldridge, E., Chan, B., Sivam, D., Freeman, D. L., & Ernest, S. K. M. (2015). An amniote life‐history database to perform comparative analyses with birds, mammals, and reptiles: Ecological Archives E096-269. Ecology, 96(11), 3109–3109. https://doi.org/10.1890/15-0846r.1
Santini, L., Benítez-López, A., Dormann, C. F., Huijbregts, M. A. J., & Martins, I. (2022). Population density estimates for terrestrial mammal species. Global Ecology and Biogeography: A Journal of Macroecology. https://doi.org/10.1111/geb.13476
Santini, L., Tobias, J. A., Callaghan, C., Gallego-Zamorano, J., & Benítez-López, A. (2023). Global patterns and predictors of avian population density. Global Ecology and Biogeography: A Journal of Macroecology, 32(7), 1189–1204. https://doi.org/10.1111/geb.13688
Sutherland, G. D., Harestad, A. S., Price, K., & Lertzman, K. P. (2000). Scaling of natal dispersal distances in terrestrial birds and mammals. Conservation Ecology, 4(1). https://www.jstor.org/stable/26271738?casa_token=ywbSvgQhHxkAAAAA:WjBt3HeNeTT-MrR89LsQ_ayo3BZRUpKWpxU_7gu3bUJW4pphM15yu0GyX0dgGpuSX79689Pn9zfzZbi7gJyJrGMoLIJV46WmJiS7TrmrG0_ARNLk-AM
